# 7주차
  

## 폴링
폴링(polling)이란 하나의 장치(또는 프로그램)가 충돌 회피 또는 동기화 처리 등을 목적으로 다른 장치(또는 프로그램)의 상태를 주기적으로 검사하여 일정한 조건을 만족할 때 송수신 등의 자료처리를 하는 방식

The solution most novices adopt is to make the getter method return a flag value (or
perhaps throw an exception) until the result field is set.

## Callback

The trick is that rather than having the main program repeatedly ask each
ReturnDigest thread whether it’s finished (like a five-year-old repeatedly asking, “Are
we there yet?” on a long car trip, and almost as annoying), you let the thread tell the
Returning Information from a Thread | 63
main program when it’s finished.

## Futures, Callables, and Executors

Java 5 introduced a new approach to multithreaded programming that makes it some‐
what easier to handle callbacks by hiding the details.

Future : (call의) 결과값이 생길 때까지 대기.

Callable : Return이 있는 Runnable

# Synchronized Blocks

To indicate that these five lines of code should be executed together, wrap them in a
synchronized block that synchronizes on the System.out object, like this:

~~~java
synchronized (System.out) {
 System.out.print(input + ": ");
 System.out.print(DatatypeConverter.printHexBinary(digest));
 System.out.println();
}
~~~
 Synchronization forces all
code that synchronizes on the same object to run in series, never in parallel.

### Synchronized Methods
Because synchronizing the entire method body on the object itself is such a common
thing to do, Java provides a shortcut. You can synchronize an entire method on the
current object (the this reference) by adding the synchronized modifier to the method
declaration. 

~~~java
public synchronized void writeEntry(String message) throws IOException {
 Date d = new Date();
 out.write(d.toString());
 out.write('\t');
 out.write(message);
 out.write("\r\n");
}
~~~

### Alternatives to Synchronization
Al‐
though each method call is safely atomic, the sequence of operations is not without
explicit synchronization.

## Deadlock
교착상태.

Synchronization can lead to another possible problem: deadlock. Deadlock occurs when
two threads need exclusive access to the same set of resources and each thread holds
the lock on a different subset of those resources.

Eventually, the deadline expires and they both get an F.
That’s the problem of deadlock.
Worse yet, deadlock can be a sporadic, hard-to-detect bug. Deadlock usually depends
on unpredictable issues of timing.

## Thread Scheduling

### Priorities(우선순위, 보장까진 아님 권고정도.)
10 is the highest
priority and 0 is the lowest. The default priority is 5

~~~java
public void calculateDigest() {
 ListCallbackDigest cb = new ListCallbackDigest(filename);
 cb.addDigestListener(this);
 Thread t = new Thread(cb);
 t.setPriority(8);
 t.start();
 }
~~~
### Blocking
Blocking occurs any time a thread has to stop and wait for a resource it doesn’t have.
The most common way a thread in a network program will voluntarily give up control
of the CPU is by blocking on I/O.

### Yielding

### Sleeping
Sleeping is a more powerful form of yielding. Whereas yielding indicates only that a
thread is willing to pause and let other equal-priority threads have a turn, a thread that
goes to sleep will pause whether any other thread is ready to run or not. 

~~~java
public void run() {
 while (true) {
 if (!getPage("http://www.ibiblio.org/")) {
 mailError("webmaster@ibiblio.org");
 }
 try {
 Thread.sleep(300000); // 300,000 milliseconds == 5 minutes
 } catch (InterruptedException ex) {
 break;
 }
 }
}
~~~
The thread is not guaranteed to sleep as long as it wants to. On occasion, the thread may
not wake up until some time after its requested wake-up call, simply because the VM is
busy doing other things.

### Joining threads

### Waiting on an object
sleep이랑 유사.
The third possibility, notification, is new. Notification occurs when some other thread
invokes the notify() or notifyAll() method on the object on which the thread is
waiting.



